README.md, before:

# Bootcamp 2020: Free Online Learn to Earn Fasttrack Bootcamp to Learn Freelancing and do Remote Work in the COVID-19 Economic Environment

We will teach you online to Build Full Stack Mobile Web Apps including e-commerce apps using React, Gatsby.js, Redux, QraphQL, Node.js/Express, MongoDB, Git, GitHub, GitHub Actions, Terraform, Google Cloud Run, AWS EC2, Contentful, Stripe, SnipCart, Shopify, etc. and to sell your services on Upwork and Fiverr. 

We have to understand humanity is facing a COVID-19 induced global economic recession and only the high-tech and software companies have grown and their stock prices and business have risen in this environment. We need to immediately get ready to face the upcoming economic crises boldly.

## English Section:

Every Tuesday at 10:00 PM – 11:15 PM Pakistan Standard Time

Every Saturday at 10:00 PM – 11:15 PM Pakistan Standard Time

[English broadcast live on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/4irug)

[YouTube English Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZUgRzBPk8CoYeHhbPL8OWg)

## Urdu Section:

Every Wednesday 10:00 pm to 11:15 pm Pakistan Standard Time

Every Sunday 10:00 pm to 11:15 pm Pakistan Standard Time

[Urdu broadcast live on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/freelance.remote.work/)

[YouTube Urdu Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfAX44elSfBV66jU53akpBA)

### Teaching Team:

[Zeeshan Hanif](https://github.com/zeeshanhanif), Hira Khan, Bashir Aziz, Daniyal Nogori, [Moshin Khalid](https://github.com/MuhammadMohsin), Aamir Pinger, Adil Altaf, Ameen Alam and [Zia Khan](https://github.com/ziaukhan).

### Prerequisites: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

These topics have been released for everyone in Urdu:

[Learn HTML by Hira Khan](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQ3BALy86tIXICkG874wAc6)

[Learn CSS Intro by Hira Khan](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQSWIen_zUSEBmtqzPLuRob)

[Learn JavaScript by Zeeshan Hanif](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQdc0NSLknxmxBch5gLOqyo)

Note: Material in English is already available extensively on the web.


## Class 1:

Learning Material for Class 1:

[Assignment Notes](https://github.com/panacloud/Bootcamp-Setup)

[Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1f1AKJIS6WkZ3PjGWG-WVJzurrEb9wNreIgmfftgQSjE/edit#slide=id.g72e8d8e333_0_978)

[Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11D43REjdlsoZgchrhwf8UeuGdtXaFFMnHS9CAkVkXoY/edit)

[Class 1 in English on Facebook](]https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/170335457846407/)

[Class 1 in English on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pjc441QKJFE)

[Class 1 in Urdu on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/170952927784660/)

[Class 1 in Urdu on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OiP7N_ztnik)



## Class 2:

Learning material

[Assignment](https://github.com/panacloud/Base-React-App)

[Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13GYhCj3Ts8fWQfj35s6Xz9YZ3WhtK0iqugdnFkrtxwQ/edit?usp=sharing)

English Videos:

[Class 2 in English on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/171414181071868/?fref=mentions)

[Class 2 in English on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G25BM3nPk3s)

[Class 2 in Urdu on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/171837241029562/)

[Class 2 in Urdu on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mEFq3YGiauM)


## Class 3 and 4

Learn React
[Learn React Tutorial](https://daveceddia.com/react-tutorial/)
Cover the Tutorial Before Fetching Data

[Class 3 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/173417630871523)

[Class 3 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHC-Gas_sok)

[Class 3 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/173553557524597/)

[Class 3 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8TQ1i93pRsk)

[Class 4 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/174431544103465/)

[Class 4 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ye0yj5WdXg4)

[Class 4 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/174837927396160/)

[Class 4 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-DhkVmlgcI)


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 1: Build an Expense Tracker App using React Hooks and Context API

## Class 5 and 6
After we have learned the useState Hook in class 4 using the [Learn React Tutorial](https://daveceddia.com/react-tutorial/) we will skip the fetch data (we will cover it latter) part of the tutorial and learn useContext and useReducer hooks and build the Expense Tracker App.

First we will learn the hooks:

[An Introduction To React’s Context API](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/01/introduction-react-context-api/)

[Working with the React Context API](https://www.toptal.com/react/react-context-api)

[How to use the useReducer React hook](https://flaviocopes.com/react-hook-usereducer/)

[Understanding the React useReducer Hook](https://alligator.io/react/usereducer/)

[Class 5 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h27ABSn-27g)

[Class 5 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/176007070612579/)

[Class 5 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_UUlRvbJPfQ)

[Class 5 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/176512327228720/)


The we will build the Expense Tracker App:

Follow this Video and build the App: [Expense Tracker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuFDcZABiDQ)

Project Due Date: Monday, June 22, 2020 Midnight Pakistan Standard Time

[Project Submit Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfnJKOcI5t-IKt7ebmdRgr5llo4PIMXUVMKGAptMjaIeN0Gsg/viewform)

[Class 6 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6GmIxnflfM)

[Class 6 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/177715090441777/)

[Class 6 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/imran82ali/videos/283949636075779/)

[Class 6 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dkMba8oK55w)

Expense Tracker App By Adil Altaf

[Git Repo URL](https://github.com/adil-innovation-lab/react-expense-tracker)

[Surge URL](http://react-expense-tracker-adil.surge.sh/)

[Step by Step Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f6KBYJQAhwUzS0UtMzrshBWwOeYHH32kMAfuLIfuDgU/edit?usp=sharing)


## Class 7 and 8

[JavaScript Promises, Callbacks, and Async/Await for Beginners](https://hackernoon.com/javascript-promises-callbacks-and-asyncawait-pu7432af)

[Asynchronous JavaScript: How Callbacks, Promises, and Async-Await Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuFDcZABiDQ)

[Class 7 English Facebook Video](https://web.facebook.com/imran82ali/videos/286047259199350/)

[Class 7 English YouTube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSCo1sPk6mg)



Learn JavaScript Fetch
[How to fetch data in JavaScript](https://javascript.info/fetch)

[Fetch API data using useEffect React hook](https://medium.com/thecodefountain/fetch-api-data-using-useeffect-react-hook-465809ca12c6)

Different Options to get data in React
[Different ways to fetch data in React](https://dmitripavlutin.com/react-fetch-lifecycle-methods-hooks-suspense/)

Data fetching with React Suspense
[React Suspense 1](https://rahmanfadhil.com/fetch-data-with-react-suspense/)
[React Suspense 2](https://blog.logrocket.com/react-suspense-for-data-fetching/)
[React Suspense 3](https://dev.to/andreiduca/practical-implementation-of-data-fetching-with-react-suspense-that-you-can-use-today-273m)
[React Suspense 4](https://medium.com/better-programming/diving-into-react-suspense-render-as-you-fetch-for-rest-apis-bf2d20ea7c59)
References:
[React Suspense Reference 1](https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-suspense.html)
[React Suspense Reference 2](https://www.manning.com/books/react-hooks-in-action)


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker App

[Submit Project here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe73k_rbeFDLdZB_mynUVF8f8AZbcG5MkvCRG_omAZuiMPDGg/viewform)

You will use React, React Material UI, Chart.js, and React Suspense to build this COVID-19 Tracker React App

1. Learn Material UI
[Main Website](https://material-ui.com/)
[Installation](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/installation/)
[Getting Started](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/usage/)
[Details](https://react.school/material-ui)
[Templates](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/templates/)

2. Learn Chart.js
[Mian Docs](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/)
[Getting Started](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/getting-started/)

3. Watch this video as a example for the app but build your own app don't just copy it:
[Example COVID-19 Tracker App Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khJlrj3Y6Ls)

4. Choose one or more COVID-19 API's that you are going to use:
[COVID-19 API Listing 1](https://rapidapi.com/collection/coronavirus-covid-19)
[COVID-19 API Listing 1](https://covid-19-apis.postman.com/)
[COVID-19 API Listing 2](https://dataconomy.com/2020/04/apis-to-track-coronavirus-covid-19/)
[COVID-19 Google Map API](https://developers.google.com/maps/covid19)

5. Start building your COVID-19 Tracker App

Your code should be hosted in a GitHub Repo from the beginning with GitHub CI/CD Actions and hosted on Surge.


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 3: Shopping Cart with Context API and React Hooks 
1. Learn the Context API with Hooks
[Context API in React with Hooks](https://www.qed42.com/blog/context-api-react-hooks)
[State Management with React Hooks and Context API in 10 lines of code!](https://medium.com/simply/state-management-with-react-hooks-and-context-api-at-10-lines-of-code-baf6be8302c)
[Building a CRUD App with React Hooks & the Context API](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/react-crud-context-hooks)

2. Review Shopping Cart Demo
[Demo](https://contextcart.netlify.app/)
[Explanation](https://www.hoseinh.com/react-context-vs-redux-hooks/)
[Video](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnjavascript/comments/cegnjx/reactjs_context_api_tutorial_shopping_cart_hooks/)
[Code](https://github.com/hoseinhamzei/Shopping-Cart-with-react-context-api)
[Another Example](https://dev.to/pixelagil/simple-react-shooping-cart-53ic)
[Yet Another Example](https://www.hoseinh.com/react-context-vs-redux-hooks/)

3. Now build your own Professional Shopping Cart with Context API and Hooks

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 4: Shoe Store using React Router v6
[Setting Started with React Router V6](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router/blob/dev/docs/installation/getting-started.md)

[React Router v6 Video Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z89iY7xwBSU&feature=emb_logo)

Now build a Shoe Store after watching this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4NpGzBEySvI)

Note: [Use the latest Experimental Release of V6](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router/releases)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 5: Shopping Cart with Redux Toolkit
1. Learn Redux Toolkit
[Basic Tutorial](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/basic-tutorial)

2. Build you Shopping Cart with Redux Toolkit
[Create a shopping basket using React and Redux Toolkit](https://developerhandbook.com/stripe/create-shopping-basket-using-redux-toolkit/)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 6: Make your Expense Tracker App and COVID-19 Tracker App into a Progressive Web App (PWA)

[What’s a PWA, and How Do I Build One?](https://medium.com/better-programming/what-is-a-pwa-and-how-do-i-build-it-e843c247efb5)

[How to Make your React App a Progressive Web App (PWA)](https://felixgerschau.com/how-to-make-your-react-app-a-progressive-web-app-pwa/)

[Google Play Store now open for Progressive Web Apps](https://medium.com/@firt/google-play-store-now-open-for-progressive-web-apps-ec6f3c6ff3cc)

[How to publish PWA app on Google Play Store – Step by step guide](https://www.vtnetzwelt.com/mobile/publishing-pwa-app-on-google-play-store/)

[How Progressive Web Apps Will Change Mobile Commerce In 2020](https://customerthink.com/how-progressive-web-apps-will-change-mobile-commerce-in-2020/)

[Make your PWA feel more like an app](https://web.dev/app-like-pwas/)

[Latest News](https://www.neowin.net/news/google-chrome-will-soon-allow-users-to-run-pwas-at-startup/)

[PWA Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 7: E-Commerce App using Gatsby.js, QraphQL, Contentful, Stripe and SnipCart
1. Learn Gatsby.js
[Gatsby Tutorials](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/tutorial/)

2. Learn Contentful
[Getting Started](https://www.contentful.com/get-started/)

3. Gatsby Ecommerce 
[Gatsby Ecommerce Tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/tutorial/ecommerce-tutorial/)

4. Learn to build ecommerce website
[Building an ecommerce site with Gatsby, Contentful and Snipcart](https://aquasar.io/articles/building-an-ecommerce-site-with-gatsby-contentful-and-snipcart?fbclid=IwAR0dZe4XoaTd5SLTgErPVC9VrzPA-68UXyTwLYhk5UoD6OOyM27CeYP9Drk)

5. International Ecommerce Services 
[Options to build a ecommerce site](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/building-an-e-commerce-site/)

6. Pakistani Payment Services
[Ecommerce in Pakistan](https://www.dawn.com/news/1549691)
[Alipay in Pakistan](https://www.brandsynario.com/alipay-in-pakistan-e-commerce-giant-plans-to-boost-the-economy/)
[JazzCash](https://sandbox.jazzcash.com.pk/sandbox)
[JazzCash Documentation](https://payments.jazzcash.com.pk/SandboxDocumentation/)
[JazzCash Developer Certer](https://developer.jazzcash.com.pk/)
[Payment Gateway](https://sandbox.jazzcash.com.pk/SandboxDocumentation/Content/documentation/Payment%20Gateway%20Integration%20Guide%20for%20Merchants-v4.2.pdf)
[Online Payment Gateway](https://www.jazzcash.com.pk/jazzcash-for-business/online-payment-gateway/)
[Telenor Opens API](https://www.centerforfinancialinclusion.org/telenor-opens-mobile-money-apis-for-third-party-developers)
[Integration Guide](http://happening.pk/gsmahackathon/apidocument3.pdf)

7. Build your own Ecommerce Website


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 6: Build Scalable Microservices with Terraform, Express, Docker, Google Cloud Run and MongoDB Atlas

1. [Build a Expense Tracker Backend using Node.js & Express API](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyWaXA_NvT0)

2. What are Microservices?
[Microservices 101](https://www.zdnet.com/article/microservices-101-a-guide-to-microservice-architecture/?fbclid=IwAR3z-BaumXGg3X9LlyHmP18mPkJ2tFU0t1tRuLXdBKDjVLhk7A6hEkbk7bw)




More Details will added as we go forward.

### Get AWS and Google Cloud Accounts for Bootcamp 2020
The software industry has completely shifted toward multi-cloud usage in projects. In our bootcamp we will be using Amazon and Google clouds extensively. It is requested from all participants that they make arrangements to get the following free AWS and Google accounts within one month:

[AWS Free Offer](https://aws.amazon.com/free/)

[Google Cloud Free Offer](https://cloud.google.com/free)

Note 1: It is very easy the difficult part is getting your account verified by using credit cards or bank accounts. 

Note 2: The cloud accounts are not required immediately. We will need them in about a months time.

### Bootcamp 2020 Ninja Team Selection
I will be selecting the best of the best developers from the bootcampers to work closely me and our team. First they will help the students and later they will be doing freelancing with our team. The criteria for selection will be the submitted projects, professionalism and project ownership. Even once selected you can be removed from the team because you did not follow instructions, or your performance is not up to mark. Only one warning will be given before removal. 

Right now I have selected only nine developer:

1. Jazzel Mehmood, Karachi
2. Farhan Farooq, Karachi
3. Abdul Raffay Rizwan, Karachi
4. Nadir Ali, Karachi
5. Maleeha Khalid, Lahore
6. Muhammad Usman Tariq, Karachi
7. Muhammad Bilal, Rawalpindi
8. Muhammad Usman, Wah Cantt 
9. Saad Baig, Karachi

Muhammad Naeem Akhtar from Turin, Italy and Nadir Ali from Karachi have jointly won Chief Ninja position in Bootcamp 2020
I am extremely pleased to announce that Muhammad Naeem Akhtar ( https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100014148211403 ) and Nadir Ali ( https://www.facebook.com/nadirali.abro.58/ ) have won the Chief Ninja position by submitting the following two React apps:

Naeem Project 1: Expense Tracker
http://expense-tracker-app-mna.surge.sh/

Naeem Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker
http://covid19-analytics-mna.surge.sh/

Nadir Project 1: Expense Tracker
http://bootcamp2020-expense-trackerapp.surge.sh/

Nadir Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker
http://bootcamp2020-covid19-trackerapp.surge.sh/

Naeem will be the Chief Ninja for the English Section:
https://www.facebook.com/groups/4IRUG/

Nadir will be the Chief Ninja for the Urdu Section:
https://www.facebook.com/groups/freelance.remote.work/

Both will also be joining the live classes representing the students.

Interesting info about Naeem:
Right now he is living in Turin, Italy. He has done Bachelor in Electronic Engineering and Master in Mechatronic Engineering from Italy. Right now he is doing a full time job as Junior Java and IoT developer. 

Note for everyone: All positions are temporary, as we move forward anyone can replace anyone, everything is purely merit based. 


Please note if I am leading a team two things are not tolerated under any circumstances: telling an untruth and unprofessional behavior. I do not care if you are not super-intelligent but what we are looking for are people who take ownership and are highly ethical and professional.

Commit message:

added class 7 urdu video links

README.md, after:

# Bootcamp 2020: Free Online Learn to Earn Fasttrack Bootcamp to Learn Freelancing and do Remote Work in the COVID-19 Economic Environment

We will teach you online to Build Full Stack Mobile Web Apps including e-commerce apps using React, Gatsby.js, Redux, QraphQL, Node.js/Express, MongoDB, Git, GitHub, GitHub Actions, Terraform, Google Cloud Run, AWS EC2, Contentful, Stripe, SnipCart, Shopify, etc. and to sell your services on Upwork and Fiverr. 

We have to understand humanity is facing a COVID-19 induced global economic recession and only the high-tech and software companies have grown and their stock prices and business have risen in this environment. We need to immediately get ready to face the upcoming economic crises boldly.

## English Section:

Every Tuesday at 10:00 PM – 11:15 PM Pakistan Standard Time

Every Saturday at 10:00 PM – 11:15 PM Pakistan Standard Time

[English broadcast live on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/4irug)

[YouTube English Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZUgRzBPk8CoYeHhbPL8OWg)

## Urdu Section:

Every Wednesday 10:00 pm to 11:15 pm Pakistan Standard Time

Every Sunday 10:00 pm to 11:15 pm Pakistan Standard Time

[Urdu broadcast live on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/freelance.remote.work/)

[YouTube Urdu Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfAX44elSfBV66jU53akpBA)

### Teaching Team:

[Zeeshan Hanif](https://github.com/zeeshanhanif), Hira Khan, Bashir Aziz, Daniyal Nogori, [Moshin Khalid](https://github.com/MuhammadMohsin), Aamir Pinger, Adil Altaf, Ameen Alam and [Zia Khan](https://github.com/ziaukhan).

### Prerequisites: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

These topics have been released for everyone in Urdu:

[Learn HTML by Hira Khan](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQ3BALy86tIXICkG874wAc6)

[Learn CSS Intro by Hira Khan](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQSWIen_zUSEBmtqzPLuRob)

[Learn JavaScript by Zeeshan Hanif](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKvqnz8z1zWQdc0NSLknxmxBch5gLOqyo)

Note: Material in English is already available extensively on the web.


## Class 1:

Learning Material for Class 1:

[Assignment Notes](https://github.com/panacloud/Bootcamp-Setup)

[Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1f1AKJIS6WkZ3PjGWG-WVJzurrEb9wNreIgmfftgQSjE/edit#slide=id.g72e8d8e333_0_978)

[Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11D43REjdlsoZgchrhwf8UeuGdtXaFFMnHS9CAkVkXoY/edit)

[Class 1 in English on Facebook](]https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/170335457846407/)

[Class 1 in English on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pjc441QKJFE)

[Class 1 in Urdu on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/170952927784660/)

[Class 1 in Urdu on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OiP7N_ztnik)



## Class 2:

Learning material

[Assignment](https://github.com/panacloud/Base-React-App)

[Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13GYhCj3Ts8fWQfj35s6Xz9YZ3WhtK0iqugdnFkrtxwQ/edit?usp=sharing)

English Videos:

[Class 2 in English on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/171414181071868/?fref=mentions)

[Class 2 in English on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G25BM3nPk3s)

[Class 2 in Urdu on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/171837241029562/)

[Class 2 in Urdu on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mEFq3YGiauM)


## Class 3 and 4

Learn React
[Learn React Tutorial](https://daveceddia.com/react-tutorial/)
Cover the Tutorial Before Fetching Data

[Class 3 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/173417630871523)

[Class 3 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHC-Gas_sok)

[Class 3 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/173553557524597/)

[Class 3 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8TQ1i93pRsk)

[Class 4 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/174431544103465/)

[Class 4 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ye0yj5WdXg4)

[Class 4 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/174837927396160/)

[Class 4 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-DhkVmlgcI)


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 1: Build an Expense Tracker App using React Hooks and Context API

## Class 5 and 6
After we have learned the useState Hook in class 4 using the [Learn React Tutorial](https://daveceddia.com/react-tutorial/) we will skip the fetch data (we will cover it latter) part of the tutorial and learn useContext and useReducer hooks and build the Expense Tracker App.

First we will learn the hooks:

[An Introduction To React’s Context API](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/01/introduction-react-context-api/)

[Working with the React Context API](https://www.toptal.com/react/react-context-api)

[How to use the useReducer React hook](https://flaviocopes.com/react-hook-usereducer/)

[Understanding the React useReducer Hook](https://alligator.io/react/usereducer/)

[Class 5 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h27ABSn-27g)

[Class 5 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/176007070612579/)

[Class 5 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_UUlRvbJPfQ)

[Class 5 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/176512327228720/)


The we will build the Expense Tracker App:

Follow this Video and build the App: [Expense Tracker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuFDcZABiDQ)

Project Due Date: Monday, June 22, 2020 Midnight Pakistan Standard Time

[Project Submit Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfnJKOcI5t-IKt7ebmdRgr5llo4PIMXUVMKGAptMjaIeN0Gsg/viewform)

[Class 6 YouTube English Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6GmIxnflfM)

[Class 6 Facebook English Video](https://www.facebook.com/piaic.main/videos/177715090441777/)

[Class 6 Facebook Urdu Video](https://www.facebook.com/imran82ali/videos/283949636075779/)

[Class 6 YouTube Urdu Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dkMba8oK55w)

Expense Tracker App By Adil Altaf

[Git Repo URL](https://github.com/adil-innovation-lab/react-expense-tracker)

[Surge URL](http://react-expense-tracker-adil.surge.sh/)

[Step by Step Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f6KBYJQAhwUzS0UtMzrshBWwOeYHH32kMAfuLIfuDgU/edit?usp=sharing)


## Class 7 and 8

[JavaScript Promises, Callbacks, and Async/Await for Beginners](https://hackernoon.com/javascript-promises-callbacks-and-asyncawait-pu7432af)

[Asynchronous JavaScript: How Callbacks, Promises, and Async-Await Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuFDcZABiDQ)

[Code for Class 7 English](https://github.com/zeeshanhanif/demo-async-programming)

[Class 7 English Facebook Video](https://web.facebook.com/imran82ali/videos/286047259199350/)

[Class 7 English YouTube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSCo1sPk6mg)

[Class 7 Urdu YouTube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8a1oq_IjCHE)

[Class 7 Urdu Facebook Video](https://www.facebook.com/imran82ali/videos/286730542464355/)


Learn JavaScript Fetch
[How to fetch data in JavaScript](https://javascript.info/fetch)

[Fetch API data using useEffect React hook](https://medium.com/thecodefountain/fetch-api-data-using-useeffect-react-hook-465809ca12c6)

Different Options to get data in React
[Different ways to fetch data in React](https://dmitripavlutin.com/react-fetch-lifecycle-methods-hooks-suspense/)

Data fetching with React Suspense
[React Suspense 1](https://rahmanfadhil.com/fetch-data-with-react-suspense/)
[React Suspense 2](https://blog.logrocket.com/react-suspense-for-data-fetching/)
[React Suspense 3](https://dev.to/andreiduca/practical-implementation-of-data-fetching-with-react-suspense-that-you-can-use-today-273m)
[React Suspense 4](https://medium.com/better-programming/diving-into-react-suspense-render-as-you-fetch-for-rest-apis-bf2d20ea7c59)
References:
[React Suspense Reference 1](https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-suspense.html)
[React Suspense Reference 2](https://www.manning.com/books/react-hooks-in-action)


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker App

[Submit Project here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe73k_rbeFDLdZB_mynUVF8f8AZbcG5MkvCRG_omAZuiMPDGg/viewform)

You will use React, React Material UI, Chart.js, and React Suspense to build this COVID-19 Tracker React App

1. Learn Material UI
[Main Website](https://material-ui.com/)
[Installation](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/installation/)
[Getting Started](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/usage/)
[Details](https://react.school/material-ui)
[Templates](https://material-ui.com/getting-started/templates/)

2. Learn Chart.js
[Mian Docs](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/)
[Getting Started](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/getting-started/)

3. Watch this video as a example for the app but build your own app don't just copy it:
[Example COVID-19 Tracker App Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khJlrj3Y6Ls)

4. Choose one or more COVID-19 API's that you are going to use:
[COVID-19 API Listing 1](https://rapidapi.com/collection/coronavirus-covid-19)
[COVID-19 API Listing 1](https://covid-19-apis.postman.com/)
[COVID-19 API Listing 2](https://dataconomy.com/2020/04/apis-to-track-coronavirus-covid-19/)
[COVID-19 Google Map API](https://developers.google.com/maps/covid19)

5. Start building your COVID-19 Tracker App

Your code should be hosted in a GitHub Repo from the beginning with GitHub CI/CD Actions and hosted on Surge.


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 3: Shopping Cart with Context API and React Hooks 
1. Learn the Context API with Hooks
[Context API in React with Hooks](https://www.qed42.com/blog/context-api-react-hooks)
[State Management with React Hooks and Context API in 10 lines of code!](https://medium.com/simply/state-management-with-react-hooks-and-context-api-at-10-lines-of-code-baf6be8302c)
[Building a CRUD App with React Hooks & the Context API](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/react-crud-context-hooks)

2. Review Shopping Cart Demo
[Demo](https://contextcart.netlify.app/)
[Explanation](https://www.hoseinh.com/react-context-vs-redux-hooks/)
[Video](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnjavascript/comments/cegnjx/reactjs_context_api_tutorial_shopping_cart_hooks/)
[Code](https://github.com/hoseinhamzei/Shopping-Cart-with-react-context-api)
[Another Example](https://dev.to/pixelagil/simple-react-shooping-cart-53ic)
[Yet Another Example](https://www.hoseinh.com/react-context-vs-redux-hooks/)

3. Now build your own Professional Shopping Cart with Context API and Hooks

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 4: Shoe Store using React Router v6
[Setting Started with React Router V6](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router/blob/dev/docs/installation/getting-started.md)

[React Router v6 Video Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z89iY7xwBSU&feature=emb_logo)

Now build a Shoe Store after watching this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4NpGzBEySvI)

Note: [Use the latest Experimental Release of V6](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router/releases)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 5: Shopping Cart with Redux Toolkit
1. Learn Redux Toolkit
[Basic Tutorial](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/basic-tutorial)

2. Build you Shopping Cart with Redux Toolkit
[Create a shopping basket using React and Redux Toolkit](https://developerhandbook.com/stripe/create-shopping-basket-using-redux-toolkit/)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 6: Make your Expense Tracker App and COVID-19 Tracker App into a Progressive Web App (PWA)

[What’s a PWA, and How Do I Build One?](https://medium.com/better-programming/what-is-a-pwa-and-how-do-i-build-it-e843c247efb5)

[How to Make your React App a Progressive Web App (PWA)](https://felixgerschau.com/how-to-make-your-react-app-a-progressive-web-app-pwa/)

[Google Play Store now open for Progressive Web Apps](https://medium.com/@firt/google-play-store-now-open-for-progressive-web-apps-ec6f3c6ff3cc)

[How to publish PWA app on Google Play Store – Step by step guide](https://www.vtnetzwelt.com/mobile/publishing-pwa-app-on-google-play-store/)

[How Progressive Web Apps Will Change Mobile Commerce In 2020](https://customerthink.com/how-progressive-web-apps-will-change-mobile-commerce-in-2020/)

[Make your PWA feel more like an app](https://web.dev/app-like-pwas/)

[Latest News](https://www.neowin.net/news/google-chrome-will-soon-allow-users-to-run-pwas-at-startup/)

[PWA Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps)

### Bootcamp 2020 Project 7: E-Commerce App using Gatsby.js, QraphQL, Contentful, Stripe and SnipCart
1. Learn Gatsby.js
[Gatsby Tutorials](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/tutorial/)

2. Learn Contentful
[Getting Started](https://www.contentful.com/get-started/)

3. Gatsby Ecommerce 
[Gatsby Ecommerce Tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/tutorial/ecommerce-tutorial/)

4. Learn to build ecommerce website
[Building an ecommerce site with Gatsby, Contentful and Snipcart](https://aquasar.io/articles/building-an-ecommerce-site-with-gatsby-contentful-and-snipcart?fbclid=IwAR0dZe4XoaTd5SLTgErPVC9VrzPA-68UXyTwLYhk5UoD6OOyM27CeYP9Drk)

5. International Ecommerce Services 
[Options to build a ecommerce site](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/building-an-e-commerce-site/)

6. Pakistani Payment Services
[Ecommerce in Pakistan](https://www.dawn.com/news/1549691)
[Alipay in Pakistan](https://www.brandsynario.com/alipay-in-pakistan-e-commerce-giant-plans-to-boost-the-economy/)
[JazzCash](https://sandbox.jazzcash.com.pk/sandbox)
[JazzCash Documentation](https://payments.jazzcash.com.pk/SandboxDocumentation/)
[JazzCash Developer Certer](https://developer.jazzcash.com.pk/)
[Payment Gateway](https://sandbox.jazzcash.com.pk/SandboxDocumentation/Content/documentation/Payment%20Gateway%20Integration%20Guide%20for%20Merchants-v4.2.pdf)
[Online Payment Gateway](https://www.jazzcash.com.pk/jazzcash-for-business/online-payment-gateway/)
[Telenor Opens API](https://www.centerforfinancialinclusion.org/telenor-opens-mobile-money-apis-for-third-party-developers)
[Integration Guide](http://happening.pk/gsmahackathon/apidocument3.pdf)

7. Build your own Ecommerce Website


### Bootcamp 2020 Project 6: Build Scalable Microservices with Terraform, Express, Docker, Google Cloud Run and MongoDB Atlas

1. [Build a Expense Tracker Backend using Node.js & Express API](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyWaXA_NvT0)

2. What are Microservices?
[Microservices 101](https://www.zdnet.com/article/microservices-101-a-guide-to-microservice-architecture/?fbclid=IwAR3z-BaumXGg3X9LlyHmP18mPkJ2tFU0t1tRuLXdBKDjVLhk7A6hEkbk7bw)




More Details will added as we go forward.

### Get AWS and Google Cloud Accounts for Bootcamp 2020
The software industry has completely shifted toward multi-cloud usage in projects. In our bootcamp we will be using Amazon and Google clouds extensively. It is requested from all participants that they make arrangements to get the following free AWS and Google accounts within one month:

[AWS Free Offer](https://aws.amazon.com/free/)

[Google Cloud Free Offer](https://cloud.google.com/free)

Note 1: It is very easy the difficult part is getting your account verified by using credit cards or bank accounts. 

Note 2: The cloud accounts are not required immediately. We will need them in about a months time.

### Bootcamp 2020 Ninja Team Selection
I will be selecting the best of the best developers from the bootcampers to work closely me and our team. First they will help the students and later they will be doing freelancing with our team. The criteria for selection will be the submitted projects, professionalism and project ownership. Even once selected you can be removed from the team because you did not follow instructions, or your performance is not up to mark. Only one warning will be given before removal. 

Right now I have selected only nine developer:

1. Jazzel Mehmood, Karachi
2. Farhan Farooq, Karachi
3. Abdul Raffay Rizwan, Karachi
4. Nadir Ali, Karachi
5. Maleeha Khalid, Lahore
6. Muhammad Usman Tariq, Karachi
7. Muhammad Bilal, Rawalpindi
8. Muhammad Usman, Wah Cantt 
9. Saad Baig, Karachi

Muhammad Naeem Akhtar from Turin, Italy and Nadir Ali from Karachi have jointly won Chief Ninja position in Bootcamp 2020
I am extremely pleased to announce that Muhammad Naeem Akhtar ( https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100014148211403 ) and Nadir Ali ( https://www.facebook.com/nadirali.abro.58/ ) have won the Chief Ninja position by submitting the following two React apps:

Naeem Project 1: Expense Tracker
http://expense-tracker-app-mna.surge.sh/

Naeem Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker
http://covid19-analytics-mna.surge.sh/

Nadir Project 1: Expense Tracker
http://bootcamp2020-expense-trackerapp.surge.sh/

Nadir Project 2: COVID-19 Tracker
http://bootcamp2020-covid19-trackerapp.surge.sh/

Naeem will be the Chief Ninja for the English Section:
https://www.facebook.com/groups/4IRUG/

Nadir will be the Chief Ninja for the Urdu Section:
https://www.facebook.com/groups/freelance.remote.work/

Both will also be joining the live classes representing the students.

Interesting info about Naeem:
Right now he is living in Turin, Italy. He has done Bachelor in Electronic Engineering and Master in Mechatronic Engineering from Italy. Right now he is doing a full time job as Junior Java and IoT developer. 

Note for everyone: All positions are temporary, as we move forward anyone can replace anyone, everything is purely merit based. 


Please note if I am leading a team two things are not tolerated under any circumstances: telling an untruth and unprofessional behavior. I do not care if you are not super-intelligent but what we are looking for are people who take ownership and are highly ethical and professional.
